## Excel-challenge
### An analysis of crowdfunding data using Excel. 

This analysis is done in partial fulfillment of the University of Oregon Continuing and Professional Education Data Analytics Boot Camp. 

The analysis employed excel, excel formulas, excel functions, pivot tables and charts, and conditional formatting. 

### Background

Crowdfunding platforms like Kickstarter and Indiegogo have been growing in success and popularity since the late 2000s. From independent content creators to famous celebrities, more and more people are using crowdfunding to launch new products and generate buzz, but not every project has found success.

To receive funding, the project must meet or exceed an initial goal, so many organizations dedicate considerable resources looking through old projects in an attempt to discover “the trick” to finding success.

The challenge was to organize and analyze a database of 1,000 sample projects to uncover any hidden trends.

The Excel workbook provided was modified to analyze the sample-project data and uncover trends.

*Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.*

### Steps followed:

* Using conditional formatting, each cell in the outcome column was filled with a different color, depending on whether the associated campaign was successful, failed, canceled, or is currently live.
* A new column called Percent Funded that uses a formula to find how much money a campaign made relative to its initial funding goal was created.
* Conditional formatting was used to fill each cell in the Percent Funded column according to a three-color scale. The scale started at 0 with a dark shade of red, and it transitioned to green at 100 and blue at 200.
* A new column called Average Donation that uses a formula to find how much each project backer paid on average was created.
* Two new columns, one called Parent Category and another called Sub-Category, that use formulas to split the Category and Sub-Category column into the two new, separate columns were created.
* A new sheet was created with a pivot table that analyzes your initial worksheet to count how many campaigns were successful, failed, canceled, or are currently live per **category**.
* A stacked-column pivot chart was created that can be filtered by country based on the table created prior.
* A new sheet was added with a pivot table that analyzes the initial sheet to count how many campaigns were successful, failed, or canceled, or are currently live per **sub-category**.
* For the preceeding table, a stacked-column pivot chart that can be filtered by country and parent category based on the table was created.
* The dates in the deadline and launched_at columns initially used Unix timestamps. Using excel formula, these timestamps were converted to a normal date in two new columns.
* A new sheet with a pivot table that has a column of outcome, rows of Date Created Conversion, values based on the count of outcome, and filters based on parent category and Years was created. Afterwards, a pivot-chart line graph that visualizes this new table was created

  At this point, a detailed report was created in Microsoft Word that included three conclusions that were drawn about crowdfunding campaigns using the provided data. Some limitations were also identified for the provided dataset. Suggestions were made for some other possible tables and/or graphs that could be created, and what additional value would they provide. 
  
### Crowdfunding Goal Analysis

A new sheet with 8 columns was created. The columns are Goal, Number Successful, Number Failed, Number Canceled, Total Projects, Percentage Successful, Percentage Failed, and Percentage Canceled. In the Goal column,  12 rows were created with the headers Less than 1000, 1000 to 4999, 5000 to 9999, 10000 to 14999, 15000 to 19999, 20000 to 24999, 25000 to 29999, 30000 to 34999, 35000 to 39999, 40000 to 44999, 45000 to 49999, and Greater than or equal to 50000.

Using the **COUNTIFS()** formula, a count was made of how many successful, failed, and canceled projects were created with goals within the ranges listed above. The **Number Successful**, **Number Failed**, and **Number Canceled** columns were populated with these data points.

Each of the values in the **Number Successful**, **Number Failed**, and **Number Canceled** columns were used to populate the **Total Projects** column. Then, using a mathematical formula, the percentage of projects that were successful, failed, or canceled per goal range were calculated. 

A line chart was created that graphs the relationship between a goal amount and its chances of success, failure, or cancellation.

### Statistical Analysis

A new worksheet was created in the workbook with one column for the number of backers of successful campaigns and one column for unsuccessful campaigns.
Using Excel, the following values for successful and unsuccessful campaigns were uncovered:
* The mean number of backers
* The median number of backers
* The minimum number of backers
* The maximum number of backers
* The variance of the number of backers
* The standard deviation of the number of backers

The outcomes were then was used to determine whether the mean or the median better summarizes the data. Finally, the data was used to determine if there is more variability with successful or unsuccessful campaigns.

*The analysis for the last section of this challenge was documented in the Microsoft Word document created beforehand.* 

